README.md, before:

# Alura User Management

![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/java-%23ED8B00.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white)
![Spring](https://img.shields.io/badge/spring-%236DB33F.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=spring&logoColor=white)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-%2300758F.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white)
![JWT](https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=JSON%20web%20tokens)

Alura User Management is a Spring Boot application designed to manage users. It utilizes a MySQL database for storage and runs as a containerized application with Docker.

Tasks board: https://trello.com/b/DihjAjwJ/alura-user-management-system

## Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

Docker and Docker Compose are installed on your system.
You have basic knowledge of Docker, Spring Boot, and MySQL.

## Project Structure

- src/ - Contains the project source code.

- pom.xml - Maven configuration file.

- Dockerfile - Instructions for building the application's Docker image.

- docker-compose.yml - Docker Compose file to orchestrate the application and its MySQL database.

### Database schema ERD
![ERD](https://github.com/JhonKaleb/AluraUserManagement/blob/main/ERD.jpg)

## Setup

To set up the project for development or testing purposes, follow these steps:

Clone the repository to your local machine:
``` bash
git clone https://github.com/JhonKaleb/AluraUserManagement.git
```
Navigate to the project directory:
```bash
cd AluraUserManagement
```

## Building the Application
To build the Docker image for the Alura User Management application, run:
``` bash
docker build -t alura-user-management .
```
This command builds the application using Maven and packages it into a Docker image named alura-user-management.

## Running the Application
To start the application along with its MySQL database, use Docker Compose:

``` bash
docker-compose up
```

This command starts the services defined in docker-compose.yml, setting up the database and the application.

- The application will be accessible at http://localhost:8080.
- The MySQL database will be accessible at localhost:3306.

*Makes sure these ports are available on your local machine before running the command.*

## Endpoints

For endpoits, import into Postman the file `Alura User Management.postman_collection.json` in the root of the project.

Or use the link: https://app.getpostman.com/join-team?invite_code=42140584ee1a52ed672f4267f7a19f35

## Volumes
The docker-compose.yml file specifies a volume for MySQL data persistence:

- db-data - Used to persist MySQL database data.

## Ports
The application runs on port 8080, and the MySQL database is accessible on port 3306 on your local machine.

## Additional Information
For more information on Spring Boot, visit the Spring Boot documentation.

For Docker and Docker Compose usage, refer to the Docker documentation.

Commit message:

doc: updated postman documentation and collection link

README.md, after:

# Alura User Management

![Java](https://img.shields.io/badge/java-%23ED8B00.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=openjdk&logoColor=white)
![Spring](https://img.shields.io/badge/spring-%236DB33F.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=spring&logoColor=white)
![MySQL](https://img.shields.io/badge/MySQL-%2300758F.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=mysql&logoColor=white)
![Docker](https://img.shields.io/badge/Docker-%230db7ed.svg?style=for-the-badge&logo=docker&logoColor=white)
![JWT](https://img.shields.io/badge/JWT-black?style=for-the-badge&logo=JSON%20web%20tokens)

Alura User Management is a Spring Boot application designed to manage users. It utilizes a MySQL database for storage and runs as a containerized application with Docker.

Tasks board: https://trello.com/b/DihjAjwJ/alura-user-management-system

## Prerequisites
Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

Docker and Docker Compose are installed on your system.
You have basic knowledge of Docker, Spring Boot, and MySQL.

## Project Structure

- src/ - Contains the project source code.

- pom.xml - Maven configuration file.

- Dockerfile - Instructions for building the application's Docker image.

- docker-compose.yml - Docker Compose file to orchestrate the application and its MySQL database.

### Database schema ERD
![ERD](https://github.com/JhonKaleb/AluraUserManagement/blob/main/ERD.jpg)

## Setup

To set up the project for development or testing purposes, follow these steps:

Clone the repository to your local machine:
``` bash
git clone https://github.com/JhonKaleb/AluraUserManagement.git
```
Navigate to the project directory:
```bash
cd AluraUserManagement
```

## Building the Application
To build the Docker image for the Alura User Management application, run:
``` bash
docker build -t alura-user-management .
```
This command builds the application using Maven and packages it into a Docker image named alura-user-management.

## Running the Application
To start the application along with its MySQL database, use Docker Compose:

``` bash
docker-compose up
```

This command starts the services defined in docker-compose.yml, setting up the database and the application.

- The application will be accessible at http://localhost:8080.
- The MySQL database will be accessible at localhost:3306.

*Makes sure these ports are available on your local machine before running the command.*

## Endpoints

For endpoits, import into Postman the file `Alura User Management.postman_collection.json` in the root of the project.

Or use the link to enter in team with the collection: https://app.getpostman.com/join-team?invite_code=42140584ee1a52ed672f4267f7a19f35

And/or the link to collection:
https://jhon-kaleb-team.postman.co/workspace/Team-Workspace~cf7f7e95-7142-47d0-8fef-93182e55ca6c/collection/33903734-ede12254-fe5b-4999-a6b9-ef57f1752b1a?action=share&creator=33903734

## Volumes
The docker-compose.yml file specifies a volume for MySQL data persistence:

- db-data - Used to persist MySQL database data.

## Ports
The application runs on port 8080, and the MySQL database is accessible on port 3306 on your local machine.

## Additional Information
For more information on Spring Boot, visit the Spring Boot documentation.

For Docker and Docker Compose usage, refer to the Docker documentation.
